{'name': 'instance-0000000000', 'cluster_name': 'aed2ba378bf84c39bb909ff34a533ff5', 'cluster_uuid': 'yAx5ztZcT6G2vFlhH_WbvQ', 'version': {'number': '9.0.3', 'build_flavor': 'default', 'build_type': 'docker', 'build_hash': 'cc7302afc8499e83262ba2ceaa96451681f0609d', 'build_date': '2025-06-18T22:09:56.772581489Z', 'build_snapshot': False, 'lucene_version': '10.1.0', 'minimum_wire_compatibility_version': '8.18.0', 'minimum_index_compatibility_version': '8.0.0'}, 'tagline': 'You Know, for Search'}

the file vector_database_wikipedia_articles_embedded allready exists skipping download


--------------------
ID: 1975
Title: Pacific Ocean
Summary: The Pacific Ocean is the body of water between Asia and Australia in the west, the Americas in the east, the Southern Ocean to the south, and the Arctic Ocean to the north. It is the largest named ocean and it covers one-third of the surface of the entire world. It joins the Atlantic Ocean at a line drawn  south from Cape Horn, Chile/Argentina to Antarctica, and joins the Indian Ocean at a line drawn  south from Tasmania, Australia to Antarctica.

As the Atlantic slowly gets wider, the Pacific is slowly shrinking. It does this by folding the sea floor in towards the centre of the Earth - this is called subduction.  This bumping and grinding is hard so there are many earthquakes and volcanoes when the pressure builds up and is quickly released as large explosions of hot rocks and dust. When an earthquake happens under the sea, the quick jerk causes a tsunami. This is why tsunamis are more common around the edge of the Pacific than anywhere else. Many of the Earth's volcanoes are either islands in the Pacific, or are on continents within a few hundred kilometers of the ocean's edge. Plate tectonics are another reason which makes Pacific Ocean smaller.

Other websites 

 EPIC Pacific Ocean Data Collection Viewable on-line collection of observational data
 NOAA In-situ Ocean Data Viewer  plot and download ocean observations
 NOAA PMEL Argo profiling floats Realtime Pacific Ocean data
 NOAA TAO El Niño data Realtime Pacific Ocean El Niño buoy data
 NOAA Ocean Surface Current Analyses – Realtime (OSCAR) Near-realtime Pacific Ocean Surface Currents derived from satellite altimeter and scatterometer data
Score: 0.9205322

--------------------
ID: 1936
Title: Atlantic Ocean
Summary: The Atlantic Ocean is the world's second largest ocean.  It covers a total area of about . It covers about 20 percent of the Earth's surface. It is named after the god Atlas from Greek mythology.

Geologic history 
The Atlantic formed when the Americas moved west from Eurasia and Africa. This began sometime in the Cretaceous period, roughly 135 million years ago. It was part of the break-up of the supercontinent Pangaea.

The east coast of South America is shaped somewhat like the west coast of Africa, and this gave a clue that continents moved over long periods of time (continental drift). The Atlantic Ocean is still growing now, because of sea-floor spreading from the mid-Atlantic Ridge, while the Pacific Ocean is said to be shrinking because the sea floor is folding under itself or subducting into the mantle.

Geography
The Atlantic Ocean is bounded on the west by North and South America. It connects to the Arctic Ocean through the Denmark Strait, Greenland Sea, Norwegian Sea and Barents Sea. It connects with the Mediterranean Sea through the Strait of Gibraltar.

In the southeast, the Atlantic merges into the Indian Ocean. The 20° East meridian defines its border.

In the southwest, the Drake Passage connects it to the Pacific Ocean. The Panama Canal links the Atlantic and Pacific.

The Atlantic Ocean is second in size to the Pacific. It occupies an area of about . The volume of the Atlantic, along with its adjacent seas (the seas next to it), is 354,700,000 cubic kilometres.

The average depth of the Atlantic, along with its adjacent seas, is . The greatest depth is Milwaukee Deep near Puerto Rico, where the Ocean is  deep.

Gulf Stream 
The Atlantic Ocean has important ocean currents.  One of these, called the Gulf Stream, flows across the North Atlantic.  Water gets heated by the sun in the Caribbean Sea and then moves northwest toward the North Pole.  This makes France, the British Isles, Iceland, and Norway in Europe much warmer in winter than Newfoundland and Nova Scotia in Canada. Without the Gulf Stream, the climates of northeast Canada and northwest Europe might be the same, because these places are about the same distance from the North Pole.

There are currents in the South Atlantic too, but the shape of this sea means that it has less effect on South Africa.

Geology 
The main feature of the Atlantic Ocean's seabed is a large underwater mountain chain called the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.  It runs from north to south under the Ocean. This is at the boundary of four tectonic plates: Eurasian, North American, South American and African. The ridge extends from Iceland in the north to about 58° south.

The salinity of the surface waters of the open ocean ranges from 3337 parts per thousand and varies with latitude and season.

References

Other websites 
LA Times special Altered Oceans 
Oceanography Image of the Day, from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
NOAA In-situ Ocean Data Viewer  Plot and download ocean observations

www.cartage.org.lb 
www.mnsu.edu
Score: 0.90444946

--------------------
ID: 1980
Title: Arctic Ocean
Summary: The Arctic Ocean is the ocean around the North Pole. The most northern parts of Eurasia and North America are around the Arctic Ocean. Thick pack ice and snow cover almost all of this ocean in winter, and most of it in summer. An icebreaker or a nuclear-powered submarine can use the Northwest Passage through the Arctic Ocean to go between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans.

The ocean's area is about 14.056 million km2, which is the smallest of the world's 5 oceans, and it has  of coastline. The central surface covered by ice about  thick. The biology there is quite special. Endangered species there include walruses, whales and polar bears. Year by year the Arctic Ocean is becoming less icy, as a result of global warming.

The average depth of the Arctic Ocean is . The deepest point is in the Eurasian Basin, at .

Geography 
The Arctic Ocean covers an area of about 14,056,000 km2.  The coastline is 45,390 km (28,200 mi) long It is surrounded by Eurasia, North America, Greenland, and by several islands.

It is generally taken to include Baffin Bay, Barents Sea, Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea, East Siberian Sea, Greenland Sea, Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Kara Sea, Laptev Sea, White Sea and other bodies of water. It is connected to the Pacific Ocean by the Bering Strait  and to the Atlantic Ocean through the Greenland Sea and Labrador Sea.

Countries bordering the Arctic Ocean are: Russia, Norway, Iceland, Greenland, Canada and the United States.

Climate 
The Arctic Ocean is in a polar climate. Winters are characterized by the polar night, cold and stable weather conditions, and clear skies.

The temperature of the surface of the Arctic Ocean is fairly constant, near the freezing point of seawater.  Arctic Ocean consists of saltwater but its salinity is less than other oceans. The temperature must reach −1.8 °C (28.8 °F) before freezing occurs.

Ice covers most of the Arctic Ocean. It covers almost the whole ocean in late winter and the majority of the ocean in late summer. Much of the Arctic ice pack is covered in snow for about 10 months of the year. The maximum snow cover is in March or April — about 20 to 50 cm (7.9 to 19.7 in).

The climate of the Arctic region has varied significantly in the past. As recently as 55 million years ago, during the eocene epoch, the region reached an average annual temperature of 10–20 °C (50–68 °F). The surface waters of the Arctic Ocean warmed enough to support tropical lifeforms.

Animal and plant life 
Endangered marine species in the Arctic Ocean include walruses and whales. The area has a fragile ecosystem. The Arctic Ocean has relatively little plant life except for phytoplankton.  Phytoplankton are a crucial part of the ocean. They feed on nutrients from rivers and the currents of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.

References

Other websites 

 The Hidden Ocean Arctic 2005 Daily logs, photos and video from exploration mission.
 Oceanography Image of the Day, from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution
 Arctic Council
 The Northern Forum
 Arctic Environmental Atlas  Interactive map
 NOAA Arctic Theme Page
 
 Daily Arctic Ocean Rawinsonde Data from Soviet Drifting Ice Stations (1954–1990) at NSIDC
 Arctic time series: The Unaami Data collection 
 NOAA North Pole Web Cam Images from Web Cams deployed in spring on an ice floe
 NOAA Near-realtime North Pole Weather Data Data from instruments deployed on an ice floe
 Search for Arctic Life Heats Up by Stephen Leahy
 International Polar Foundation
 National Snow and Ice Data Center – Daily report of Arctic ice cover based on satellite data
 Marine Biodiversity Wiki 

Oceans
Arctic
Score: 0.8938446

--------------------
ID: 55885
Title: South Pacific
Summary: South Pacific is the name for a geographical region of the world. It includes regions of the Pacific Ocean which lie south of the Equator: Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea, and parts of Oceania.

Pacific Ocean
Score: 0.89378357

--------------------
ID: 2033
Title: Southern Ocean
Summary: The Southern Ocean is the ocean around Antarctica. It means the waters of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans around the continent of Antarctica. Since the 1770s geographers have discussed its limits. Nowadays, sixty degrees south latitude is often accepted. Some people call this ocean the Antarctic Ocean.

The total area is 20,327,000 km², and the coastline length is 17,968 km.

Other websites 

 Oceanography Image of the Day, from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution
 The CIA World Factbook's  entry on the Southern Ocean
 The Fifth Ocean from Geography.About.com
 NOAA In-situ Ocean Data Viewer  Plot and download ocean observations
 NOAA FAQ about the number of oceans 

 
Geography of Antarctica
Score: 0.89372253

--------------------
ID: 33298
Title: Pacific Islands
Summary: Pacific Islands are islands that are in the Pacific Ocean. There are about 20,000 or 30,000 of them. These islands are sometimes called Oceania. The Pacific Islands are in three groups. These groups are Polynesia, Melanesia, and Micronesia. People who live on these islands are called Pacific Islanders. These islands can be made by volcanoes or made on coral reefs. The islands made by volcanoes are bigger, and more people can live on them. The islands made on coral reefs are smaller, and fewer people can live on them. One of Oceania's biggest economic advantages are tourism. As many vacationers come to see the wildlife and the beautiful beaches that span the islands. Major countries and territories include Samoa, Hawaii (U.S), Federal States of Micronesia and French Polynesia. 

Island countries in the Pacific Ocean, such as Malaysia, Philippines, East Timor, Japan, Taiwan and most of Indonesia are not considered Pacific Islands since they do not lie in any of the three Oceanic regions. People inhabiting those islands, therefore are not Pacific Islanders.
Score: 0.8925934

--------------------
ID: 1978
Title: Indian Ocean
Summary: The Indian Ocean is the ocean surrounded by Asia to the north, Australia and the Pacific Ocean to the east, the Southern Ocean to the south, and Africa and the Atlantic Ocean to the west. It is named for the river Indus and Ancient India on its north shore. The Bay of Bengal, the Arabian Sea, the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea are all parts of this ocean.

The deepest point in the Indian Ocean is in the Java Trench near the Sunda Islands in the east, 7500 m (25,344 feet) deep. The average depth is 3,890 m (12,762 ft). The Indian Ocean is the third largest ocean, 28,350,000 square miles in size. The majority is in the southern hemisphere.

Other websites 

 Maps of the indian Ocean
 Océan Indien in easy French
 NOAA In-situ Ocean Data Viewer  Plot and download ocean observations
 The Indian Ocean in World History: Educational Website Interactive resource from the Sultan Qaboos Cultural Center
 The Regional Tuna Tagging Project-Indian Ocean with details of the importance of Tuna in the Indian Ocean.. 
 Detailed maps of the Indian Ocean
 The Indian Ocean Trade: A Classroom Simulation 
 CIA - The World Factbook, Oceans: Indian Ocean
Score: 0.8908844

--------------------
ID: 72970
Title: California Current
Summary: The California Current is a Pacific Ocean current that starts along the northwestern United States coast and ends on the southern tip of the Baja California peninsula.

Other websites
Seattle Times: 2005 Warming Event

Pacific Ocean
Ocean currents
Score: 0.8895111

--------------------
ID: 21358
Title: Mariana Trench
Summary: The Mariana Trench is the deepest known submarine trench. It is also the deepest known location on Earth itself. It lies south and east of the Mariana Islands, and has a depth up to 10,971 m (7 miles). The western end of the trench is near Guam.

The trench is about 2,550 kilometres (1,580 miles) long but has a mean width of only 69 kilometres (43 miles).

Challenger Deep 
The deepest part of the trench is known as the Challenger Deep. It is named after the British Royal Navy survey ship HMS Challenger, whose expedition of 1872–76 made the first recordings of its depth.

A 2009 sonar mapping of the Challenger Deep from the Kilo Moana found a spot with a depth of  (6.82 miles).  The sonar system has an accuracy of better than 0.2% of water depth.   Water pressure is more than a thousand times as great as at the surface.
 
The Challenger Deep has been reached four times by submersibles, namely the manned bathyscaphe Trieste on 23 January 1960, the unmanned robotic deep-sea probes Kaiko (Japanese) in 1995 and Nereus (U.S.) in 2009, and by James Cameron in the Deepsea Challenger on 26 March, 2012. Cameron was able to film a 3D movie of the bottom of the trench.

Lifeforms 
The HMS Challenger expedition found radiolaria in the two dredged samples taken when the Challenger Deep was first discovered. 

On their 1960 descent, the crew of the Trieste noted that the floor consisted of diatomaceous ooze and reported observing "some type of flatfish, resembling a sole, about 1 foot long and 6 inches across" lying on the seabed. The report has since been questioned, with suggestions that it may have been a sea cucumber. The video camera on board the Kaiko probe spotted a sea cucumber, a scale worm and a shrimp at the bottom. At the bottom of the Challenger deep, the Nereus probe spotted one polychaete worm about an inch long.

An analysis of the sediment samples collected by Kaiko found large numbers of simple organisms at . 

The overwhelming majority of the organisms collected were simple, soft-shelled foraminifera (432 species according to National Geographic).  

Eighty-five percent of the specimens were organic, soft-shelled forams. This is unusual compared to samples of sediment from other deep-sea environments, where the percentage of organic-walled foraminifera ranges from 5% to 20%. As small organisms with hard, calcareous shells have trouble growing at extreme depths because of the high solubility of calcium carbonate in the pressurized water, scientists theorize that the preponderance of soft-shelled organisms in the Challenger Deep may have resulted from survivors of the biosphere present when the Challenger Deep was shallower than it is now.

Tectonic plates 
The trench is one of the results of a large boundary where two oceanic tectonic plates have converged (collided).

At the boundary, the western edge of the Pacific Plate is subducted beneath the small Mariana Plate. Because the Pacific plate is the largest of all the tectonic plates on Earth, crustal material at its western edge has had up to 170 million years to compact and become very dense; hence its great height-difference relative to the higher-riding Mariana Plate, at the point where the Pacific Plate crust is subducted. This deep area is the Mariana trench proper. The movement of these plates is also responsible for the formation of the Mariana Islands.

References 

Pacific Ocean
Oceanography
Plate tectonics
Score: 0.8865814

--------------------
ID: 11124
Title: List of seas
Summary: The sea is the interconnected system of all the Earth's oceanic waters, including the Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, Southern and Arctic Oceans. However, the word "sea" can also be used for many specific, much smaller bodies of seawater, such as the North Sea or the Red Sea.There are 78 seas in the world

List of seas, by ocean

Pacific Ocean 
 Bering Sea
 Gulf of Alaska
 Seck Sea (Gulf of California)
 Sea of Okhotsk
 Sea of Japan
 Seto Inland Sea
 East China Sea
 South China Sea
 Beibu Gulf
 Sulu Sea
 Celebes Sea
 Bohol Sea (Mindanao Sea)
 Philippine Sea
 Flores Sea
 Banda Sea
 Arafura Sea
 Tasman Sea
 Yellow Sea
 Bohai Sea
 Coral Sea
 Gulf of Carpentaria

Atlantic Ocean 
 Hudson Bay
 James Bay
 Baffin Bay init fam
 Gulf of St. Lawrence
 Gulf of Guinea
 Caribbean Sea
 Gulf of Mexico
 Sargasso Sea
 North Sea
 Baltic Sea
 Gulf of Bothnia
 Irish Sea
 Celtic Sea
 English Channel
 Mediterranean Sea
 Adriatic Sea
 Aegean Sea
 Black Sea
 Sea of Azov
 Ionian Sea
 Ligurian Sea
 Mirtoon Sea
 Tyrrhenian Sea
 Gulf of Sidra
 Sea of Marmara
 Sea of Crete

Indian Ocean 
 Red Sea
 Gulf of Aden
 Persian Gulf
 Gulf of Oman
 Arabian Sea
 Bay of Bengal
 Gulf of Thailand
 Java Sea
 Timor Sea
 Gulf of Kutch
 Gulf of Khambhat

Arctic Ocean 
 Barents Sea
 Kara Sea
 Beaufort Sea
 Amundsen Gulf
 Greenland Sea
 Chukchi Sea
 Laptev Sea
 East Siberian Sea

Southern Ocean 
 Amundsen Sea
 Weddell Sea
 Ross Sea
 Great Australian Bight
 Gulf St. Vincent
 Spencer Gulf

Seas which have land around them (these are landlocked) 
 Aral Sea
 Caspian Sea
 Dead Sea
 Sea of Galilee (we call this a sea, but it is really a small freshwater lake)
 Salton Sea

Seas which are not on Earth 
Lunar maria are very big areas on the Moon. In the past, people thought they were water and called them "seas". 

Scientists think that there is liquid water under the ground on some moons, for example Europa.

Scientists also think that there are liquid hydrocarbons on Titan. 

Basic English 850 words

Geography-related lists
Score: 0.8865051
======================start top hit summary======================
The Pacific Ocean is the body of water between Asia and Australia in the west, the Americas in the east, the Southern Ocean to the south, and the Arctic Ocean to the north. It is the largest named ocean and it covers one-third of the surface of the entire world. It joins the Atlantic Ocean at a line drawn  south from Cape Horn, Chile/Argentina to Antarctica, and joins the Indian Ocean at a line drawn  south from Tasmania, Australia to Antarctica.

As the Atlantic slowly gets wider, the Pacific is slowly shrinking. It does this by folding the sea floor in towards the centre of the Earth - this is called subduction.  This bumping and grinding is hard so there are many earthquakes and volcanoes when the pressure builds up and is quickly released as large explosions of hot rocks and dust. When an earthquake happens under the sea, the quick jerk causes a tsunami. This is why tsunamis are more common around the edge of the Pacific than anywhere else. Many of the Earth's volcanoes are either islands in the Pacific, or are on continents within a few hundred kilometers of the ocean's edge. Plate tectonics are another reason which makes Pacific Ocean smaller.

Other websites 

 EPIC Pacific Ocean Data Collection Viewable on-line collection of observational data
 NOAA In-situ Ocean Data Viewer  plot and download ocean observations
 NOAA PMEL Argo profiling floats Realtime Pacific Ocean data
 NOAA TAO El Niño data Realtime Pacific Ocean El Niño buoy data
 NOAA Ocean Surface Current Analyses – Realtime (OSCAR) Near-realtime Pacific Ocean Surface Currents derived from satellite altimeter and scatterometer data
======================end top hit summary======================
model: gpt-4o-mini
Question: how big is the pacific ocean
tokens used to preform search: ~346
KNN: 10
------------------------------------------------------------
The Pacific Ocean is the largest named ocean and covers one-third of the surface of the entire world. It is bordered by Asia and Australia to the west, the Americas to the east, the Southern Ocean to the south, and the Arctic Ocean to the north. While the text does not provide specific measurements in terms of square miles or kilometers, it emphasizes its vast size relative to the Earth’s surface. Additionally, the Pacific Ocean is gradually shrinking due to tectonic processes, but it remains the largest ocean on the planet.
------------------------------------------------------------
